.\" This man page is Copyright (C) 2010 Lennert Buytenhek.
.\" Permission is granted to distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of this page provided the header is included verbatim,
.\" and in case of nontrivial modification author and date
.\" of the modification is added to the header.
.TH iv_signal 3 2010-09-03 "ivykis" "ivykis programmer's manual"
.SH NAME
iv_signal_register, iv_signal_unregister \- ivykis signal handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <iv_signal.h>
.sp
.nf
struct iv_signal {
        int             signum;
        unsigned        exclusive:1;
        void            *cookie;
        void            (*handler)(void *);
};
.fi
.sp
.BI "int iv_signal_register(struct iv_signal *" this ");"
.br
.BI "void iv_signal_unregister(struct iv_signal *" this ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iv_signal
provides a way for
.BR ivykis (3)
applications to handle POSIX signals, by integrating them with the
ivykis event loop.
.PP
An ivykis application desiring signal notification registers a
.B struct iv_signal
object by calling
.B iv_signal_register,
after having filled in the
.B ->signum,
.B ->cookie
and
.B ->handler
members.
.PP
Once the signal indicated by
.B ->signum
arrives, the callback specified by
.B ->handler
is scheduled to be called in the thread that
the
.B struct iv_signal
object was registered in, with
.B ->cookie
as its sole argument.
.PP
If the same signal arrives again while the callback function is still
running, the callback function is guaranteed to be called again after
it returns.
.PP
It is permitted to register multiple
.B struct iv_signal
objects for the same signal number.  If all such objects are
registered with
.B ->exclusive
set to zero, then all objects will have their callback functions
called upon arrival of the signal, in no guaranteed order.
.PP
Invoking callback functions stops at the first
.B struct iv_signal
object with
.B ->exclusive
set to true, so that if all objects have
.B ->exclusive
set to one, only one callback function will be invoked.
.PP
To deinitialize a
.B struct iv_signal
object, call
.B iv_signal_unregister
from the same thread that
.B iv_signal_register
was called from on that object.
.PP
It is permitted to unregister a
.B struct iv_signal
object from any ivykis callback function in the thread it was
registered in, including from a callback function triggered by this
object, and it is permitted to free the memory corresponding to an
unregistered object from its own callback function.
.PP
Internally,
.B iv_signal
is implemented using
.BR iv_event_raw (3).
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ivykis (3),
.BR iv_event_raw (3),
.BR signal (2)
