.\" This man page is Copyright (C) 2010 Lennert Buytenhek.
.\" Permission is granted to distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of this page provided the header is included verbatim,
.\" and in case of nontrivial modification author and date
.\" of the modification is added to the header.
.TH iv_event 3 2010-09-03 "ivykis" "ivykis programmer's manual"
.SH NAME
IV_EVENT_INIT, iv_event_register, iv_event_unregister, iv_event_post, iv_event_is_active \- manage ivykis objects for event notification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <iv_event.h>
.sp
.nf
struct iv_event {
        void            *cookie;
        void            (*handler)(void *);
};
.fi
.sp
.BI "int IV_EVENT_INIT(struct iv_event *" this ");"
.br
.BI "int iv_event_register(struct iv_event *" this ");"
.br
.BI "void iv_event_unregister(struct iv_event *" this ");"
.br
.BI "void iv_event_post(struct iv_event *" this ");"
.br
.BI "int iv_event_is_active(struct iv_event *" this ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iv_event
provides a way for delivering events to
.BR ivykis (3)
recipients across thread boundaries.
.PP
The intended event recipient calls
.B IV_EVENT_INIT
on a
.B struct iv_event
object, fills in
.B ->cookie
and
.B ->handler,
and then calls
.B iv_event_register
on the object.
.PP
To generate an event, call
.B iv_event_post
on the previously initialized
.B struct iv_event
object.  This will cause the callback specified by
.B ->handler
to be called in the thread that the
.B struct iv_event
object was registered in, with
.B ->cookie
as its sole argument.
.PP
To deinitialize a
.B struct iv_event
object, call
.B iv_event_unregister
from the same thread that
.B iv_event_register
was called from on that object.
.PP
The return value of
.B iv_event_is_active
indicates whether a
.B struct iv_event
is currently scheduled for execution.  Note that this primitive is
racy unless you take additional measures to serialise calls to
.B iv_event_is_active
with calls to
.B iv_event_post
on the same object.
.PP
It is permitted to unregister a
.B struct iv_event
object from any ivykis callback function in the thread it was
registered in, including from a callback function triggered by this
object, and it is permitted to free the memory corresponding to an
unregistered object from its own callback function.
.PP
.B iv_event_post
can be called from the same thread that
.B iv_event_register
was called from, or from a different thread within the same process,
but can not be called from a different process, and can not be called
from signal handlers.  If you need this functionality, look at
.BR iv_event_raw (3).
.PP
Internally,
.B iv_event
is implemented as a wrapper around
.BR iv_event_raw (3),
and multiplexes multiple
.B struct iv_event
objects over per-thread
.B struct iv_event_raw
objects, to save file descriptors and kernel resources.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ivykis (3),
.BR iv_event_raw (3)
